The junior winter Olympics led me to Lillehammer
and to the biathlon shooting range.
When I was a child, I watched the Winter Olympics
and I could not understand the biathlon.
It seemed too arbitrary to me. Skiing,
then shoot at the target and ski again.
It seemed to me to be an incompatible combination.
But there is a reason to do so.
Yes, the biathlon includes cross-country skiing,
but is based on former military training.
You know how shooters say it's important to control
and adjust your breathing.
Well, try adjusting it after such a long ride.
GEIR OLE STEINSLETT: When they come to the shooting range,
concentrate on their breathing, look at the flags,
because the wind has a big impact on the bullet.
They stand in position with their rifle,
you need to charge a five-cartridge cartridge
and put half a pound pressure on the trigger.
They fire five times, put the rifle on their backs
and set off as quickly as possible.
TS: I'm not very athletic.
I can run 5 km, my pulse is not too high ...
I can not compare myself to the athletes here.
They reduce their pulse as much as possible, as quickly as possible,
using different techniques.
I do not think I can handle them like that.
GOS: You have to be happy if you hit once!
TS: Teach me to shoot with this rifle.
GOS: Lie down. Next to your shoulder.
TS: On my shoulder. Yes. I'm taking this.
GOS: And then ... ready!
TS: Done!
GOS: There's a boom. A loaded rifle.
TS: Okay. So ... I'm aiming at number 12 ...
I missed it.
GOS: Reload - back and forth.
Hit the metal.
TS: I hit the metal.
GOS: Oh, hit!
TS: Ha! Okay ...
One out of five, okay.
Now I have to get up and go.
I can not ski.
That's what I will become
and I will run.
All right.
It is very difficult!
I did not think that ...
it will be so important.
But I really need ...
... to determine when to breathe.
I did not even hit the metal with the last shot. Wow.
I really did not expect it to be that difficult.
I knew that breathing matters,
but it was as if I was targeting a target that was on a moving boat
up and down in front of me.
And I was just trying
to stop breathing for a moment to calm down.
It just does not work out that way.
Quite a tough sport.
There are still many videos on the Olympics channel,
as well as on my channel - watch them and subscribe.
Thanks to the Youth Olympic Games
that they led me to Lillehammer.
(Ex: WG)